all around the world including right
here in Germany countries are grappling
with a rise in both anti-semitic
violence and rhetoric following the
October 7 Hamas Terror attacks on Israel
that sentiment is also being seen in
China anti-jewish hate is sweeping
across online platforms there people are
praising both Hamas and Adolf Hitler for
example and posting anti-israel abuse in
a country that normally heavily censors
its internet those comments are largely
being allowed to stay up I'll be
speaking to our China analyst in a
moment but first here's a look at the
situation at this press conference in
Europe there is grief and anguish for a
Chinese Israeli women kidnapped in the
October 7th Hamas terror attack but in
China an interview by Noah aamani's
mother met with hateful responses
online the most liked comment said I
don't want to pay attention to
her even more anti-semitic attacks have
flooded China's directly censored
internet since the Israel Hamas War
erupted on way a micro blogging platform
like X some nationalist influences with
millions of followers compared Israel's
bombing on Gaza to the Holocaust in
World War II some comments praised the
late German dictator AR of Hitler and
his persecution of
Jews and on a map widely used in China
only the City Jerusalem has been labeled
the country named Israel has
disappeared the Israeli Embassy
temporarily closed its comment section
over abusive post and this Diplomat
publicly expressed
disappointment publicly the Chinese
government has repeated its STS against
online hate
speech China's laws unequivocally
prohibit promoting extremism ethnic
hatred discrimination and violence via
the
internet but generally Chinese censors
wipe out online content not approved by
the government yet anti-semitic comments
related to the October 7th Terror
attacks by Hamas have lingered for
weeks we can break this down now with DW
news Asia analyst Clifford Co and
Clifford hi there I guess it's important
to point out that anti-Semitism online
isn't just a problem in China but how
widespread is it there well I think with
China um because it's such a big country
when you get um examples like
anti-Semitism online you get big numbers
as well because it's such a huge online
population there um we saw last month
how the state broadcaster China central
uh television uh broadcast a clip
showing um about what it said was
Israeli influence in the US elections
and it said that um 3% of the population
was is was Jewish is and it controls 70%
of the wealth which is one of these
tropes anti-semitic tropes that's out
there um a clip of that got 120 million
views so it's it's very um um it's very
uh
widespread to that extent on the other
hand you don't really see that much
anti-Semitism um in my time there I you
would see sort of stereotypes about um
anti-em about uh Israel and about the
Jews but they'd often be about business
Acumen and these sort of things but they
wouldn't have been hostile in any way so
in some ways what happens in China is
that things sort of pick up pace and
they pick up heat and um until now
you've seen more examples of anti- um
anti-muslim Behavior particularly in in
shinjang where you've had a million um
Muslims incarcerated you've had imams
with having their beard shaved and um
being forced to drink alcohol because of
of China's repressive policies in in
shinjang so in some ways I don't think
the
anti-semitic um online behavior is
typical as such but it's certainly taken
on a new Pace uh since since the recent
uh Hamas attack on Israel yeah I want to
get on to that if we can sort of take a
bit of a broader look spill out for us
what is China's official position on
Israel and the Palestinians and then
this this wider conflict that you
mentioned well I think historically uh
China has been very Pro Palestinian the
People's Republic of China so the
communist China has been very Pro um Pro
Palestine um Chairman Mao Zedong uh
helped support the Palestinian
Liberation Organization during the 70s
there's in the 80s a group of Israeli
soldiers found all these documents um
you know Guerilla instru instruction
books from China um there's always been
sort of backing as as an agent against
what what China described as imperialism
um and also in China's anti-us stance
which has been fairly common for many
years h in recent years that's changed
though the attitude to Israel has become
much more uh positive because of
technological issues primarily uh Israel
has been able to help uh China's uh
Ambitions in terms of building up its
its technological prowess and things
like that so it's become much more Pro
but in the last while we've seen um
we've seen a a different definite change
in stance how do you think then these
positions feed into a public sentiment
among Chinese people in particular the
anti-Semitism that that you've been
talking about well I think one of the
big factors that we we've seen recently
has been um growing nationalism in China
and that nationalism tends to manifest
itself as being anti- us and Israel has
seen very much as a very close Ally of
of the US so I think a lot of it is
feeding out of that um in some ways uh
it's kind of been almost weaponized to a
certain extent and um we've also seen
China's growing closeness with Russia
with Iran with these other uh actors who
are very
anti-israel so um a lot of these things
are kind of coalescing together and it's
it's feeding into a broader Coalition um
of of thought within China that would be
anti-israel China's internet sensors are
known of course to be very very rigorous
but it seems as we've seen in that
report not in this particular instance
why do you think that and and what could
that signal well I think with China the
the level of control of the internet is
total I mean it's very very if there's
anything sensitive it can be taken down
anything sensitive that gets left up
there you have to presume there's some
kind of tcid approval either for the
sentiment in the message that's left up
there or whether they just want it out
there to create a debate but um
basically if there's anything that they
feel harmful to Chinese interests it
will be removed and within hours so that
would SU suggest that there is some kind
of interest in maybe while China says
you know it it's neutral it still hasn't
condemned Israel's attack on on uh sorry
um hamas's attack on Israel and um you
know so it its neutrality seems to be
not the neutrality that it appears and a
lot of that can be seen with the way
that um these comments that are left
online are left online Clifford I just
want to look back and turn our attention
and finally to the Middle East China has
had some success there as a mediator
particularly in the case of Saudi Arabia
and Iran how is it positioning itself in
terms of the Israel Hamas conflict well
I think um we've saw in the Ukraine
conflict that China is is Keen to put
itself forward as a as a broker there uh
and it's similarly suggested that it
could perhaps be an honest broker in the
in the relation in the um Israel uh
Hamas conflict however this is slightly
undermine just as it was in Ukraine by
the fact that its interests it's not
entirely neutral um like we were saying
that it hasn't it hasn't condemned uh
the Hamas attack on Israel and um it
talks very much more about the bombing
of Gaza um so its focus is slightly
different just as in Ukraine its focus
was much more uh even though it says
it's neutral there it's a pro- Russian
neutal neutrality uh sort of a tacid
support and I think that undermines
China's role as a possible mediator
despite its successes as you point out
in other areas of the Middle East so
something will have to change within the
chi within China's approach to the
Middle East if it's going to be seen as
a as a an honest broker there great to
get your insights dwe news Asia analyst
Clifford coer and cord
thanks